19 January 2026
*Notes about the controller's part*:-
1- Controller's head is the control plane. (gives instructions)
2- Controller's body is the data plane. (receives instructions)

Q: What is the main function of the controller's head (the small part)?
Ans: Receives the instructions from the firewall's manager.
This part receives a JSON file from the manager with all the instructions given.

20 January 2026
Q: What is the main function of the controller's body (the large part)?
Ans: Executes what is inside the JSON file that manages the appliance modules.
Takes the JSON instructions from the head in addition to the username and the privileges.

Q: What is the goal of the body?
Ans: Runs, updates and shutdowns modules.

Q: What are the precise functions of the body?
Ans: According to the head-body diagram:-
1- Starting modules (forking new processes) and every process is responsible for loading its own SO files with all the instructions.
2- Manages the monitoring system (using the SNMP status).
3- Updates the modules using the JSON file got from the head.

According to the above, there will be four functions:-
1- start_module
input: JSON file (validate if it is for this module) - output: process
2- start_monitor
input: starts automatically - output: transfer to the monitor window (takes the updates from the SNMP messages.)
3- update_monitor
input: JSON file (validate if it is for this module) - output: changes in the settings (executions) of the module
4- shutdown_module
input: JSON file (validate if it is for this module) - output: the module shutdowns (terminate the process)

Additional functions:-
5- receive_information
input: No arguments - output: JSON file after validation from the head
6- json_interpret
Reads the JSON file given by the head and executes its content.
input: JSON file - output: execution of the content 

Working Pipeline:-
1. The body receives the JSON file from the head after the validation process.
2. The body determine the privileges for this user (user validation).
3. The body determines the targeted module from this JSON file, and then prepares everything to it.
4. The body forks a child process with all the specifications inside the JSON file.
5. The body receives feeds about the status of the modules via the SNMP protocol implementation (for the monitoring process).
6. The body receives the JSON file that wants to update a module, and then send a signal with all the changes (via a pipe).
7. The body receives the JSON file that wants to shutdown a module, and then send a signal to terminate the process (module).

The head and body are two different processes and they communicate with each other using sockets and shared memory.
As a convention, we suppose that the body has already a JSON file with all the status of the module.
This is applied due to the security purposes. (the control plane must be separated from the data plane.)


Q: What is the content of the control settings for example?
Ans:-
1- Socket address of the device that carries the module
2- Start, update or shutdown the module (a listening socket in every module will listen for the signals sent by the controller)

Q: What are the types of validations on the JSON file sent by the head?
Ans:-
1- The privilege number of the user (what are the modules that the user is allowed to deploy)
2- Its purity against the injections (JSON injection)
3- Other validations
